docs/build-agents/agent-details.mdx, before:

---
title: "Agent Details"
description: "Configure how your agent appears and behaves in the BeeAI Platform UI"
---

The BeeAI Platform displays agents in both the GUI and CLI. When building your agent, you can configure certain attributes that affect how it appears and behaves in the user interface. The `@server.agent` decorator accepts an `AgentDetails` parameter that controls the visual representation and behavior in the UI.

You can customize various aspects of your agent's presentation, such as:
- The type of user interface the agent uses
- Metadata about tools the agent provides
- Author and contributor information
- License and source code details
- Custom user greetings

## Basic Configuration

Configuring agent details is straightforward. Import `AgentDetail` and use it in the decorator. Most fields are self-explanatory:

```python
import os

from a2a.types import (
    Message,
)
from beeai_sdk.server import Server
from beeai_sdk.server.context import RunContext
from beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions import AgentDetail, AgentDetailContributor, AgentDetailTool

server = Server()

@server.agent(
    detail=AgentDetail(
        ui_type="chat",
        user_greeting="Welcome! I'm here to help you with your tasks.",
        input_placeholder="Ask anything...",
        license="Apache 2.0",
        programming_language="Python",
        framework="BeeAI",
        tools=[
            AgentDetailTool(
                name="Weather",
                description="Get the weather for a given location",
            ),
        ],
        homepage_url="https://github.com/beeai-dev/beeai-agents",
        source_code_url="https://github.com/beeai-dev/beeai-agents",
        container_image_url="ghcr.io/beeai-dev/beeai-agents:v0.0.1",
        author=AgentDetailContributor(
            name="BeeAI",
            email="info@beeai.dev",
            url="https://beeai.dev",
        ),
        contributors=[
            AgentDetailContributor(
                name="Another Person",
                email="another@beeai.dev",
                url="https://beeai.dev",
            ),
        ]
    )
)
async def example_agent(input: Message, context: RunContext):
    """An example agent with detailed configuration"""
    yield "Hello World!"

def run():
    server.run(host=os.getenv("HOST", "127.0.0.1"), port=int(os.getenv("PORT", 8000)))


if __name__ == "__main__":
    run()
```

Commit message:

chore: update naming for agentstack in docs
Signed-off-by: Tomas Weiss <tomas.weiss2@gmail.com>

docs/build-agents/agent-details.mdx, after:

---
title: "Agent Details"
description: "Configure how your agent appears and behaves in the Agent Stack UI"
---

The Agent Stack displays agents in both the GUI and CLI. When building your agent, you can configure certain attributes that affect how it appears and behaves in the user interface. The `@server.agent` decorator accepts an `AgentDetails` parameter that controls the visual representation and behavior in the UI.

You can customize various aspects of your agent's presentation, such as:
- The type of user interface the agent uses
- Metadata about tools the agent provides
- Author and contributor information
- License and source code details
- Custom user greetings

## Basic Configuration

Configuring agent details is straightforward. Import `AgentDetail` and use it in the decorator. Most fields are self-explanatory:

```python
import os

from a2a.types import (
    Message,
)
from agentstack_sdk.server import Server
from agentstack_sdk.server.context import RunContext
from agentstack_sdk.a2a.extensions import AgentDetail, AgentDetailContributor, AgentDetailTool

server = Server()

@server.agent(
    detail=AgentDetail(
        ui_type="chat",
        user_greeting="Welcome! I'm here to help you with your tasks.",
        input_placeholder="Ask anything...",
        license="Apache 2.0",
        programming_language="Python",
        framework="BeeAI",
        tools=[
            AgentDetailTool(
                name="Weather",
                description="Get the weather for a given location",
            ),
        ],
        homepage_url="https://github.com/i-am-bee/agentstack/tree/main/agents",
        source_code_url="https://github.com/i-am-bee/agentstack/tree/main/agents",
        container_image_url="ghcr.io/agentstack/agentstack-agents:v0.0.1",
        author=AgentDetailContributor(
            name="AgentStack",
            email="info@agentstack.dev",
            url="https://agentstack.dev",
        ),
        contributors=[
            AgentDetailContributor(
                name="Another Person",
                email="another@agentstack.dev",
                url="https://agentstack.dev",
            ),
        ]
    )
)
async def example_agent(input: Message, context: RunContext):
    """An example agent with detailed configuration"""
    yield "Hello World!"

def run():
    server.run(host=os.getenv("HOST", "127.0.0.1"), port=int(os.getenv("PORT", 8000)))


if __name__ == "__main__":
    run()
```
