docs/build-agents/agent-settings.mdx, before:

---
title: "Agent Settings"
description: "Allow users to configure agent behavior with interactive settings"
---

Sometimes you need to give users control over how your agent behaves during a conversation. For example, users might want to enable or disable thinking mode, choose between different response styles, or configure other agent-specific parameters.

The BeeAI platform provides a Settings extension that creates an interactive UI component where users can configure these options before or during their interaction with your agent.

<Tip>
Settings extensions are a type of [Platform Extension](/concepts/extensions) that allows you to easily "inject dependencies" into your agent. This follows the inversion of control principle where your agent defines what it needs, and the platform provides those dependencies.
</Tip>

## Quickstart

<Steps>
<Step title="Import the Settings extension">
Import the necessary components from the BeeAI SDK settings extension.
</Step>

<Step title="Add settings parameter to your agent">
Inject the Settings extension into your agent function using the `Annotated` type hint.
</Step>

<Step title="Define your settings structure">
Create a `SettingsRender` object with the fields you want users to configure.
</Step>

<Step title="Process settings data">
Use `parse_settings_response()` to access the user's configuration choices.
</Step>
</Steps>

## Basic Settings Example

Here's how to add settings capabilities to your agent:

```python
import os
from collections.abc import AsyncGenerator
from typing import Annotated

from a2a.types import Message

from beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.settings import (
    CheckboxField,
    CheckboxGroupField,
    SettingsExtensionServer,
    SettingsExtensionSpec,
    SettingsRender,
)
from beeai_sdk.a2a.types import RunYield
from beeai_sdk.server import Server
from beeai_sdk.server.context import RunContext

server = Server()

@server.agent()
async def settings_agent(
    message: Message,
    context: RunContext,
    settings: Annotated[
        SettingsExtensionServer,
        SettingsExtensionSpec(
            params=SettingsRender(
                fields=[
                    CheckboxGroupField(
                        id="thinking_group",
                        fields=[
                            CheckboxField(
                                id="thinking",
                                label="Enable Thinking Mode",
                                default_value=True,
                            )
                        ],
                    )
                ],
            ),
        ),
    ],
) -> AsyncGenerator[RunYield, Message]:
    """Agent that demonstrates settings configuration"""

    if not settings:
        yield "Settings extension hasn't been activated, no settings are available"
        return

    parsed_settings = settings.parse_settings_response()

    thinking_group = parsed_settings.values["thinking_group"]
    if thinking_group.type == "checkbox_group":
        if thinking_group.values["thinking"].value:
            yield "Thinking mode is enabled - I'll show my reasoning process.\n"
        else:
            yield "Thinking mode is disabled - I'll provide direct responses.\n"

def run():
    server.run(host=os.getenv("HOST", "127.0.0.1"), port=int(os.getenv("PORT", 8000)))

if __name__ == "__main__":
    run()
```

## How to work with settings

Here's what you need to know to add settings capabilities to your agent:

**Import the settings extension**: Import `SettingsExtensionServer`, `SettingsExtensionSpec`, `SettingsRender`, and field types from `beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.settings`.

**Inject the extension**: Add a settings parameter to your agent function using the `Annotated` type hint with `SettingsExtensionServer` and `SettingsExtensionSpec`.

**Define your settings structure**: Create a `SettingsRender` object with the fields you want users to configure.

**Check if the extension exists**: Always verify that the settings extension is provided before using it, as service extensions are optional.

**Parse settings data**: Use `settings.parse_settings_response()` to access the user's configuration choices.

**Access field values**: Use `parsed_settings.values['field_id']` to access the submitted values from your settings fields.

<Tip>
Settings are presented to users in a clean, organized interface that makes it easy to configure your agent's behavior. The platform automatically handles the UI rendering and data collection.
</Tip>

<Warning>
Always check if the settings extension is available before using it to comply with plain A2A clients.
</Warning>

## Settings Field Types

The BeeAI platform supports various field types for collecting different kinds of configuration data:

### CheckboxField
Single checkbox fields for boolean configuration options.

```python
from beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.settings import CheckboxField

CheckboxField(
    id="debug_mode", 
    label="Enable Debug Mode", 
    default_value=False,
)
```

### CheckboxGroupField
Groups multiple checkboxes together for related boolean options.

```python
from beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.settings import CheckboxField, CheckboxGroupField

CheckboxGroupField(
    id="features",
    fields=[
        CheckboxField(
            id="thinking",
            label="Show Thinking Process",
            default_value=True,
        ),
        CheckboxField(
            id="citations",
            label="Include Citations",
            default_value=False,
        ),
    ],
)
```

### SingleSelectField
Dropdown fields for choosing a single option from a list.

```python
from beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.settings import OptionItem, SingleSelectField

SingleSelectField(
    id="response_style", 
    options=[
        OptionItem(value="formal", label="Formal"),
        OptionItem(value="casual", label="Casual"),
        OptionItem(value="technical", label="Technical"),
    ],
    default_value="casual",
)
```

Commit message:

chore: update naming for agentstack in docs
Signed-off-by: Tomas Weiss <tomas.weiss2@gmail.com>

docs/build-agents/agent-settings.mdx, after:

---
title: "Agent Settings"
description: "Allow users to configure agent behavior with interactive settings"
---

Sometimes you need to give users control over how your agent behaves during a conversation. For example, users might want to enable or disable thinking mode, choose between different response styles, or configure other agent-specific parameters.

The Agent Stack platform provides a Settings extension that creates an interactive UI component where users can configure these options before or during their interaction with your agent.

<Tip>
Settings extensions are a type of [Platform Extension](/concepts/extensions) that allows you to easily "inject dependencies" into your agent. This follows the inversion of control principle where your agent defines what it needs, and the platform provides those dependencies.
</Tip>

## Quickstart

<Steps>
<Step title="Import the Settings extension">
Import the necessary components from the Agent Stack SDK settings extension.
</Step>

<Step title="Add settings parameter to your agent">
Inject the Settings extension into your agent function using the `Annotated` type hint.
</Step>

<Step title="Define your settings structure">
Create a `SettingsRender` object with the fields you want users to configure.
</Step>

<Step title="Process settings data">
Use `parse_settings_response()` to access the user's configuration choices.
</Step>
</Steps>

## Basic Settings Example

Here's how to add settings capabilities to your agent:

```python
import os
from collections.abc import AsyncGenerator
from typing import Annotated

from a2a.types import Message

from agentstack_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.settings import (
    CheckboxField,
    CheckboxGroupField,
    SettingsExtensionServer,
    SettingsExtensionSpec,
    SettingsRender,
)
from agentstack_sdk.a2a.types import RunYield
from agentstack_sdk.server import Server
from agentstack_sdk.server.context import RunContext

server = Server()

@server.agent()
async def settings_agent(
    message: Message,
    context: RunContext,
    settings: Annotated[
        SettingsExtensionServer,
        SettingsExtensionSpec(
            params=SettingsRender(
                fields=[
                    CheckboxGroupField(
                        id="thinking_group",
                        fields=[
                            CheckboxField(
                                id="thinking",
                                label="Enable Thinking Mode",
                                default_value=True,
                            )
                        ],
                    )
                ],
            ),
        ),
    ],
) -> AsyncGenerator[RunYield, Message]:
    """Agent that demonstrates settings configuration"""

    if not settings:
        yield "Settings extension hasn't been activated, no settings are available"
        return

    parsed_settings = settings.parse_settings_response()

    thinking_group = parsed_settings.values["thinking_group"]
    if thinking_group.type == "checkbox_group":
        if thinking_group.values["thinking"].value:
            yield "Thinking mode is enabled - I'll show my reasoning process.\n"
        else:
            yield "Thinking mode is disabled - I'll provide direct responses.\n"

def run():
    server.run(host=os.getenv("HOST", "127.0.0.1"), port=int(os.getenv("PORT", 8000)))

if __name__ == "__main__":
    run()
```

## How to work with settings

Here's what you need to know to add settings capabilities to your agent:

**Import the settings extension**: Import `SettingsExtensionServer`, `SettingsExtensionSpec`, `SettingsRender`, and field types from `agentstack_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.settings`.

**Inject the extension**: Add a settings parameter to your agent function using the `Annotated` type hint with `SettingsExtensionServer` and `SettingsExtensionSpec`.

**Define your settings structure**: Create a `SettingsRender` object with the fields you want users to configure.

**Check if the extension exists**: Always verify that the settings extension is provided before using it, as service extensions are optional.

**Parse settings data**: Use `settings.parse_settings_response()` to access the user's configuration choices.

**Access field values**: Use `parsed_settings.values['field_id']` to access the submitted values from your settings fields.

<Tip>
Settings are presented to users in a clean, organized interface that makes it easy to configure your agent's behavior. The platform automatically handles the UI rendering and data collection.
</Tip>

<Warning>
Always check if the settings extension is available before using it to comply with plain A2A clients.
</Warning>

## Settings Field Types

The Agent Stack supports various field types for collecting different kinds of configuration data:

### CheckboxField
Single checkbox fields for boolean configuration options.

```python
from agentstack_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.settings import CheckboxField

CheckboxField(
    id="debug_mode", 
    label="Enable Debug Mode", 
    default_value=False,
)
```

### CheckboxGroupField
Groups multiple checkboxes together for related boolean options.

```python
from agentstack_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.settings import CheckboxField, CheckboxGroupField

CheckboxGroupField(
    id="features",
    fields=[
        CheckboxField(
            id="thinking",
            label="Show Thinking Process",
            default_value=True,
        ),
        CheckboxField(
            id="citations",
            label="Include Citations",
            default_value=False,
        ),
    ],
)
```

### SingleSelectField
Dropdown fields for choosing a single option from a list.

```python
from agentstack_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.settings import OptionItem, SingleSelectField

SingleSelectField(
    id="response_style", 
    options=[
        OptionItem(value="formal", label="Formal"),
        OptionItem(value="casual", label="Casual"),
        OptionItem(value="technical", label="Technical"),
    ],
    default_value="casual",
)
```
