docs/build-agents/forms.mdx, before:

---
title: "Forms"
description: "Collect structured input from users"
---

One of the most powerful features of the BeeAI platform is the ability to request structured data from users through interactive forms. Instead of relying on free-form text input, your agent can present users with specific fields, dropdowns, and other form elements to gather precise information.

The BeeAI platform provides a Form extension that allows you to collect structured data from users in two ways:

1. **Initial form rendering** - Present a form as the first interaction before users start a conversation with your agent
2. **Dynamic form requests** - Request forms at any point during a multi-turn conversation when your agent needs specific structured input


## Quickstart

<Steps>
<Step title="Import the Form extension">
Import the necessary components from the BeeAI SDK form extension.
</Step>

<Step title="Add form parameter to your agent">
Inject the Form extension into your agent function using the `Annotated` type hint.
</Step>

<Step title="Define your form structure">
Create a `FormRender` object with the fields you want to collect from users.
</Step>

<Step title="Process form data">
Use either `parse_form_response()` for initial forms or `request_form()` for dynamic forms.
</Step>
</Steps>

## Initial Form Rendering

For initial form rendering, you specify the form structure when injecting the extension and then parse the response from the initial message:

```python
import os
from typing import Annotated

from a2a.types import Message
from beeai_sdk.server import Server
from beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.form import (
    FormExtensionServer,
    FormExtensionSpec,
    FormRender,
    TextField
)

server = Server()

@server.agent()
async def initial_form_agent(
    message: Message,
    form: Annotated[
        FormExtensionServer,
        FormExtensionSpec(
            params=FormRender(
                id="user_info_form",
                title="Welcome! Please tell us about yourself",
                columns=2,
                fields=[
                    TextField(id="first_name", label="First Name", col_span=1),
                    TextField(id="last_name", label="Last Name", col_span=1),
                ],
            )
        ),
    ],
):
    """Agent that collects user information through an initial form"""
    
    # Parse the form data from the initial message
    form_data = form.parse_form_response(message=message)
    
    # Access the form values
    first_name = form_data.values['first_name'].value
    last_name = form_data.values['last_name'].value
    
    yield f"Hello {first_name} {last_name}! Nice to meet you."

def run():
    server.run(host=os.getenv("HOST", "127.0.0.1"), port=int(os.getenv("PORT", 8000)))

if __name__ == "__main__":
    run()
```

## Dynamic Form Requests

For dynamic form requests during conversation, you can request forms at any point when your agent needs structured input. This is useful when your agent needs to collect additional information based on the conversation flow:

```python
import os
from typing import Annotated

from a2a.types import Message
from a2a.utils.message import get_message_text
from beeai_sdk.server import Server
from beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.form import (
    FormExtensionServer,
    FormExtensionSpec,
    FormRender,
    TextField
)

server = Server()

@server.agent()
async def dynamic_form_agent(
    message: Message,
    form: Annotated[
        FormExtensionServer,
        FormExtensionSpec(params=None)
    ],
):
    """Agent that requests forms dynamically during conversation"""
    
    user_input = get_message_text(message)
    
    # Check if user wants to provide contact information
    if "contact" in user_input.lower() or "reach" in user_input.lower():
        # Request contact form dynamically
        form_data = await form.request_form(
            form=FormRender(
                id="contact_form",
                title="Please provide your contact information",
                columns=2,
                fields=[
                    TextField(id="email", label="Email Address", col_span=2),
                    TextField(id="phone", label="Phone Number", col_span=1),
                    TextField(id="company", label="Company", col_span=1),
                ],
            )
        )
        
        email = form_data.values['email'].value
        phone = form_data.values['phone'].value
        company = form_data.values['company'].value
        
        yield f"Thank you! I'll contact you at {email} or {phone} regarding {company}."
    else:
        yield "Hello! If you'd like me to contact you, just let me know and I'll ask for your details."

def run():
    server.run(host=os.getenv("HOST", "127.0.0.1"), port=int(os.getenv("PORT", 8000)))

if __name__ == "__main__":
    run()
```

## How to work with forms

Here's what you need to know to add form capabilities to your agent:

**Import the form extension**: Import `FormExtensionServer`, `FormExtensionSpec`, `FormRender`, and field types from `beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.form`.

**Inject the extension**: Add a form parameter to your agent function using the `Annotated` type hint with `FormExtensionServer` and `FormExtensionSpec`.

**For initial forms**: Specify the form structure in the `FormExtensionSpec` parameters and use `parse_form_response()` to extract data from the initial message.

**For dynamic forms**: Use an empty `FormExtensionSpec()` and call `await form.request_form()` with your form definition when needed.

**Access form data**: Use `form_data.values['field_id'].value` to access the submitted values from your form fields. Different field types return different value types:

- **TextField/DateField**: Returns `str | None`
- **FileField**: Returns `list[FileInfo] | None` where each `FileInfo` has `uri`, `name`, and `mime_type`
- **MultiSelectField**: Returns `list[str] | None` (list of selected option IDs)
- **CheckboxField**: Returns `bool | None`

## Form Field Types

The BeeAI platform supports various field types for collecting different kinds of structured data:

### TextField
Basic text input fields for collecting strings, names, descriptions, etc.

```python
from beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.form import TextField

TextField(
    id="username", 
    label="Username", 
    col_span=1,
    required=True,
    placeholder="Enter your username",
    default_value=""
)
```

### DateField
Date input fields for collecting dates and timestamps.

```python
from beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.form import DateField

DateField(
    id="birth_date", 
    label="Birth Date",
    col_span=1,
    required=True,
    placeholder="YYYY-MM-DD",
    default_value="1990-01-01"
)
```

### FileField
File upload fields for collecting files from users.

```python
from beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.form import FileField

FileField(
    id="document", 
    label="Upload Document",
    col_span=2,
    required=True,
    accept=["application/pdf", "image/jpeg", "image/png"]
)
```

### MultiSelectField
Multi-select dropdown fields for choosing multiple options from a list.

```python
from beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.form import OptionItem, MultiSelectField

MultiSelectField(
    id="interests", 
    label="Your Interests",
    col_span=2,
    required=False,
    options=[
        OptionItem(id="tech", label="Technology"),
        OptionItem(id="sports", label="Sports"),
        OptionItem(id="music", label="Music"),
        OptionItem(id="travel", label="Travel")
    ],
    default_value=["tech", "music"]
)
```

### CheckboxField
Single checkbox fields for boolean values.

```python
from beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.form import CheckboxField

CheckboxField(
    id="newsletter", 
    label="Subscribe to Newsletter", 
    col_span=1,
    required=False,
    content="I agree to receive marketing emails",
    default_value=False
)
```

## Form Layout Configuration

Control how your form appears using the `FormRender` configuration:

```python
FormRender(
    id="my_form",
    title="Form Title",
    description="Optional description text below the title",
    columns=2,  # Number of columns in the form grid
    submit_label="Custom Submit Button Text",
    fields=[
        # Your field definitions here
    ]
)
```

**FormRender properties**:
- **`id`**: Unique identifier for the form (required)
- **`title`**: Main heading displayed above the form
- **`description`**: Optional description text displayed below the title
- **`columns`**: Number of columns in the form grid (1-4)
- **`submit_label`**: Custom text for the submit button (default: "Submit")
- **`fields`**: List of form field definitions (required)

<Tip>
Use `col_span` on individual fields to control how they span across the grid. For example, with `columns=2`, a field with `col_span=2` will take the full width, while `col_span=1` will take half the width.
</Tip>

Commit message:

docs(beeai-sdk): document passing model to form extension
Signed-off-by: Jan Pokorný <JenomPokorny@gmail.com>

docs/build-agents/forms.mdx, after:

---
title: "Forms"
description: "Collect structured input from users"
---

One of the most powerful features of the BeeAI platform is the ability to request structured data from users through interactive forms. Instead of relying on free-form text input, your agent can present users with specific fields, dropdowns, and other form elements to gather precise information.

The BeeAI platform provides a Form extension that allows you to collect structured data from users in two ways:

1. **Initial form rendering** - Present a form as the first interaction before users start a conversation with your agent
2. **Dynamic form requests** - Request forms at any point during a multi-turn conversation when your agent needs specific structured input


## Quickstart

<Steps>
<Step title="Import the Form extension">
Import the necessary components from the BeeAI SDK form extension.
</Step>

<Step title="Add form parameter to your agent">
Inject the Form extension into your agent function using the `Annotated` type hint.
</Step>

<Step title="Define your form structure">
Create a `FormRender` object with the fields you want to collect from users.
</Step>

<Step title="Process form data">
Use either `parse_form_response()` for initial forms or `request_form()` for dynamic forms.
</Step>
</Steps>

## Initial Form Rendering

For initial form rendering, you specify the form structure when injecting the extension and then parse the response from the initial message:

```python
import os
from typing import Annotated

from a2a.types import Message
from beeai_sdk.server import Server
from beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.form import (
    FormExtensionServer,
    FormExtensionSpec,
    FormRender,
    TextField
)

server = Server()

@server.agent()
async def initial_form_agent(
    message: Message,
    form: Annotated[
        FormExtensionServer,
        FormExtensionSpec(
            params=FormRender(
                id="user_info_form",
                title="Welcome! Please tell us about yourself",
                columns=2,
                fields=[
                    TextField(id="first_name", label="First Name", col_span=1),
                    TextField(id="last_name", label="Last Name", col_span=1),
                ],
            )
        ),
    ],
):
    """Agent that collects user information through an initial form"""
    
    # Parse the form data from the initial message
    form_data = form.parse_form_response(message=message)
    
    # Access the form values
    first_name = form_data.values['first_name'].value
    last_name = form_data.values['last_name'].value
    
    yield f"Hello {first_name} {last_name}! Nice to meet you."

def run():
    server.run(host=os.getenv("HOST", "127.0.0.1"), port=int(os.getenv("PORT", 8000)))

if __name__ == "__main__":
    run()
```

## Dynamic Form Requests

For dynamic form requests during conversation, you can request forms at any point when your agent needs structured input. This is useful when your agent needs to collect additional information based on the conversation flow:

```python
import os
from typing import Annotated

from a2a.types import Message
from a2a.utils.message import get_message_text
from beeai_sdk.server import Server
from beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.form import (
    FormExtensionServer,
    FormExtensionSpec,
    FormRender,
    TextField
)

server = Server()

@server.agent()
async def dynamic_form_agent(
    message: Message,
    form: Annotated[
        FormExtensionServer,
        FormExtensionSpec(params=None)
    ],
):
    """Agent that requests forms dynamically during conversation"""
    
    user_input = get_message_text(message)
    
    # Check if user wants to provide contact information
    if "contact" in user_input.lower() or "reach" in user_input.lower():
        # Request contact form dynamically
        form_data = await form.request_form(
            form=FormRender(
                id="contact_form",
                title="Please provide your contact information",
                columns=2,
                fields=[
                    TextField(id="email", label="Email Address", col_span=2),
                    TextField(id="phone", label="Phone Number", col_span=1),
                    TextField(id="company", label="Company", col_span=1),
                ],
            )
        )
        
        email = form_data.values['email'].value
        phone = form_data.values['phone'].value
        company = form_data.values['company'].value
        
        yield f"Thank you! I'll contact you at {email} or {phone} regarding {company}."
    else:
        yield "Hello! If you'd like me to contact you, just let me know and I'll ask for your details."

def run():
    server.run(host=os.getenv("HOST", "127.0.0.1"), port=int(os.getenv("PORT", 8000)))

if __name__ == "__main__":
    run()
```

## How to work with forms

Here's what you need to know to add form capabilities to your agent:

**Import the form extension**: Import `FormExtensionServer`, `FormExtensionSpec`, `FormRender`, and field types from `beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.form`.

**Inject the extension**: Add a form parameter to your agent function using the `Annotated` type hint with `FormExtensionServer` and `FormExtensionSpec`.

**For initial forms**: Specify the form structure in the `FormExtensionSpec` parameters and use `parse_form_response()` to extract data from the initial message.

**For dynamic forms**: Use an empty `FormExtensionSpec()` and call `await form.request_form()` with your form definition when needed.

**Access form data**: Use `form_data.values['field_id'].value` to access the submitted values from your form fields. Different field types return different value types:

- **TextField/DateField**: Returns `str | None`
- **FileField**: Returns `list[FileInfo] | None` where each `FileInfo` has `uri`, `name`, and `mime_type`
- **MultiSelectField**: Returns `list[str] | None` (list of selected option IDs)
- **CheckboxField**: Returns `bool | None`

As a convenient shortcut, you may use a custom model (Pydantic model, `TypedDict`, `dataclass`, or any class supported by `pydantic.TypeAdapter`) to load form data. For example, we can define a following model:

```python
from pydantic import BaseModel

class ContactInfo(BaseModel):
    email: str | None
    phone: str | None
    company: str | None
```

Then, in agent code, pass `model=ContactInfo` to `parse_form_response(...)` or `request_form(...)` to get the form data directly as an instance of `ContactInfo`:

```python
contact_info: ContactInfo = form.parse_form_response(message=message, model=ContactInfo)
```

## Form Field Types

The BeeAI platform supports various field types for collecting different kinds of structured data:

### TextField
Basic text input fields for collecting strings, names, descriptions, etc.

```python
from beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.form import TextField

TextField(
    id="username", 
    label="Username", 
    col_span=1,
    required=True,
    placeholder="Enter your username",
    default_value=""
)
```

### DateField
Date input fields for collecting dates and timestamps.

```python
from beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.form import DateField

DateField(
    id="birth_date", 
    label="Birth Date",
    col_span=1,
    required=True,
    placeholder="YYYY-MM-DD",
    default_value="1990-01-01"
)
```

### FileField
File upload fields for collecting files from users.

```python
from beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.form import FileField

FileField(
    id="document", 
    label="Upload Document",
    col_span=2,
    required=True,
    accept=["application/pdf", "image/jpeg", "image/png"]
)
```

### MultiSelectField
Multi-select dropdown fields for choosing multiple options from a list.

```python
from beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.form import OptionItem, MultiSelectField

MultiSelectField(
    id="interests", 
    label="Your Interests",
    col_span=2,
    required=False,
    options=[
        OptionItem(id="tech", label="Technology"),
        OptionItem(id="sports", label="Sports"),
        OptionItem(id="music", label="Music"),
        OptionItem(id="travel", label="Travel")
    ],
    default_value=["tech", "music"]
)
```

### CheckboxField
Single checkbox fields for boolean values.

```python
from beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions.ui.form import CheckboxField

CheckboxField(
    id="newsletter", 
    label="Subscribe to Newsletter", 
    col_span=1,
    required=False,
    content="I agree to receive marketing emails",
    default_value=False
)
```

## Form Layout Configuration

Control how your form appears using the `FormRender` configuration:

```python
FormRender(
    id="my_form",
    title="Form Title",
    description="Optional description text below the title",
    columns=2,  # Number of columns in the form grid
    submit_label="Custom Submit Button Text",
    fields=[
        # Your field definitions here
    ]
)
```

**FormRender properties**:
- **`id`**: Unique identifier for the form (required)
- **`title`**: Main heading displayed above the form
- **`description`**: Optional description text displayed below the title
- **`columns`**: Number of columns in the form grid (1-4)
- **`submit_label`**: Custom text for the submit button (default: "Submit")
- **`fields`**: List of form field definitions (required)

<Tip>
Use `col_span` on individual fields to control how they span across the grid. For example, with `columns=2`, a field with `col_span=2` will take the full width, while `col_span=1` will take half the width.
</Tip>
