docs/build-agents/hello-world.mdx, before:

---
title: "Hello World"
description: "Start building your own agent with a simple Hello World example"
---

Now that your BeeAI Platform is up and running, and you have a basic understanding of how to run the agent via either the GUI or CLI, let’s get to some coding.

To build an agent that automatically appears in the platform, all you need to do is use the BeeAI SDK library, which handles the registration process for you.

Although building a “Hello World” agent is straightforward, we’ve streamlined the process for you with a starter repository that you can begin editing right away.


## Prerequisites

- [BeeAI Platform](/introduction/quickstart) installed
- Python 3.11 or higher
- [UV](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) package manager

## Quickstart

<Steps>
<Step title="Use the official starter template to get started quickly.">
<Tabs>
<Tab title="Clone Directly">
```bash
git clone https://github.com/i-am-bee/beeai-platform-agent-starter my-agent
cd my-agent
```
</Tab>
<Tab title="Use as a GitHub template">
1. Go to [the template repository](https://github.com/i-am-bee/beeai-platform-agent-starter)
2. Click "Use this template" → "Create a new repository"
3. Clone your new repository locally
</Tab>
</Tabs>
</Step>

<Step title="Test the Template Agent">

```bash
uv run server
```

</Step>
<Step title="Then in another terminal">


```bash
beeai run example_agent "Alice"
```
</Step>
</Steps>

You should see: "Ciao Alice!" 🎉

With your first agent up and running, you can now modify the code to do whatever you want.

## Implement Your Agent Logic

Navigate to [src/beeai_agents/agent.py](https://github.com/i-am-bee/beeai-platform-agent-starter/blob/main/src/beeai_agents/agent.py) and replace the example with your agent implementation.

The example implementation doesn’t do much. It’s intended purely for demonstration purposes.

```python
import os

from a2a.types import (
    Message,
)
from a2a.utils.message import get_message_text
from beeai_sdk.server import Server
from beeai_sdk.server.context import Context
from beeai_sdk.a2a.types import AgentMessage

server = Server()

@server.agent()
async def example_agent(input: Message, context: Context):
    """Polite agent that greets the user"""
    hello_template: str = os.getenv("HELLO_TEMPLATE", "Ciao %s!")
    yield AgentMessage(text=hello_template % get_message_text(input))

def run():
    server.run(host=os.getenv("HOST", "127.0.0.1"), port=int(os.getenv("PORT", 8000)))


if __name__ == "__main__":
    run()
```

<Steps title="Building Your First Agent: Step-by-Step">

<Step title="Start a server">
An agent is essentially an HTTP server. Create a `Server` instance and run it using `run()`.
</Step>

<Step title="Mark your agent function">
Add the `@server.agent` decorator to your function so the platform recognizes it as an agent.
</Step>

<Step title="Name your agent">
Whatever you name the function will be the agent’s name in the platform.
</Step>

<Step title="Describe your agent">
Write a docstring for the function; it will be extracted and shown as the agent’s description in the platform.
</Step>

<Step title="Understand the function arguments">
- **First argument:** an [A2A `Message`](https://a2a-protocol.org/latest/specification/#64-message-object).
- **Second argument:** a `Context` object with run details (e.g., `task_id`, `context_id`).
</Step>

<Step title="Extract text from Message">
Use `get_message_text()` to quickly extract the text content from a `Message`.
</Step>

<Step title="Make it an async generator">
The agent function should be asynchronous and yield results as they’re ready.
</Step>

<Step title="Send responses easily">
- Yield an `AgentMessage` (a handy wrapper around A2A Message) for convenience.
- Or yield a plain `str`, which will be automatically converted into an A2A Message.
</Step>

</Steps>

## Starting from Scratch

Want to build your agent without using our starter repo?  

All you need to do is set up an empty Python project, install `beeai-sdk` as a dependency, and then use the code above.

There’s no magic in the starter repo. It simply provides some basic Python scaffolding, a simple GitHub workflow, and a Dockerfile, most of which are entirely optional.

## Next Steps

Now that you've built your Hello World agent, you can:
- Explore how to provide more [GUI configuration](/build-agents/agent-details) options through the concept of `AgentDetail`
- Leverage [LLM Access](/build-agents/llm-access) in your agent
- Understand how [Messages](/build-agents/messages) are used for communication between Agent and the Client
- Build beautiful GUI for your agents with [GUI Components](/build-agents/gui-components)
- Learn how to work with [files](/build-agents/files)
- [Share your agent](/how-to/share-agents) with the others

Commit message:

docs: forms extension
Signed-off-by: Tomas Weiss <tomas.weiss2@gmail.com>

docs/build-agents/hello-world.mdx, after:

---
title: "Hello World"
description: "Start building your own agent with a simple Hello World example"
---

Now that your BeeAI Platform is up and running, and you have a basic understanding of how to run the agent via either the GUI or CLI, let’s get to some coding.

To build an agent that automatically appears in the platform, all you need to do is use the BeeAI SDK library, which handles the registration process for you.

Although building a “Hello World” agent is straightforward, we’ve streamlined the process for you with a starter repository that you can begin editing right away.


## Prerequisites

- [BeeAI Platform](/introduction/quickstart) installed
- Python 3.11 or higher
- [UV](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) package manager

## Quickstart

<Steps>
<Step title="Use the official starter template to get started quickly.">
<Tabs>
<Tab title="Clone Directly">
```bash
git clone https://github.com/i-am-bee/beeai-platform-agent-starter my-agent
cd my-agent
```
</Tab>
<Tab title="Use as a GitHub template">
1. Go to [the template repository](https://github.com/i-am-bee/beeai-platform-agent-starter)
2. Click "Use this template" → "Create a new repository"
3. Clone your new repository locally
</Tab>
</Tabs>
</Step>

<Step title="Test the Template Agent">

```bash
uv run server
```

</Step>
<Step title="Then in another terminal">


```bash
beeai run example_agent "Alice"
```
</Step>
</Steps>

You should see: "Ciao Alice!" 🎉

With your first agent up and running, you can now modify the code to do whatever you want.

## Implement Your Agent Logic

Navigate to [src/beeai_agents/agent.py](https://github.com/i-am-bee/beeai-platform-agent-starter/blob/main/src/beeai_agents/agent.py) and replace the example with your agent implementation.

The example implementation doesn’t do much. It’s intended purely for demonstration purposes.

```python
import os

from a2a.types import (
    Message,
)
from a2a.utils.message import get_message_text
from beeai_sdk.server import Server
from beeai_sdk.server.context import Context
from beeai_sdk.a2a.types import AgentMessage

server = Server()

@server.agent()
async def example_agent(input: Message, context: Context):
    """Polite agent that greets the user"""
    hello_template: str = os.getenv("HELLO_TEMPLATE", "Ciao %s!")
    yield AgentMessage(text=hello_template % get_message_text(input))

def run():
    server.run(host=os.getenv("HOST", "127.0.0.1"), port=int(os.getenv("PORT", 8000)))


if __name__ == "__main__":
    run()
```

<Steps title="Building Your First Agent: Step-by-Step">

<Step title="Start a server">
An agent is essentially an HTTP server. Create a `Server` instance and run it using `run()`.
</Step>

<Step title="Mark your agent function">
Add the `@server.agent` decorator to your function so the platform recognizes it as an agent.
</Step>

<Step title="Name your agent">
Whatever you name the function will be the agent’s name in the platform.
</Step>

<Step title="Describe your agent">
Write a docstring for the function; it will be extracted and shown as the agent’s description in the platform.
</Step>

<Step title="Understand the function arguments">
- **First argument:** an [A2A `Message`](https://a2a-protocol.org/latest/specification/#64-message-object).
- **Second argument:** a `Context` object with run details (e.g., `task_id`, `context_id`).
</Step>

<Step title="Extract text from Message">
Use `get_message_text()` to quickly extract the text content from a `Message`.
</Step>

<Step title="Make it an async generator">
The agent function should be asynchronous and yield results as they’re ready.
</Step>

<Step title="Send responses easily">
- Yield an `AgentMessage` (a handy wrapper around A2A Message) for convenience.
- Or yield a plain `str`, which will be automatically converted into an A2A Message.
</Step>

</Steps>

## Starting from Scratch

Want to build your agent without using our starter repo?  

All you need to do is set up an empty Python project, install `beeai-sdk` as a dependency, and then use the code above.

There’s no magic in the starter repo. It simply provides some basic Python scaffolding, a simple GitHub workflow, and a Dockerfile, most of which are entirely optional.

## Next Steps

Now that you've built your Hello World agent, you can:
- Explore how to provide more [GUI configuration](/build-agents/agent-details) options through the concept of `AgentDetail`
- Leverage [LLM Access](/build-agents/llm-access) in your agent
- Understand how [Messages](/build-agents/messages) are used for communication between Agent and the Client
- Build beautiful GUI for your agents with [GUI Components](/build-agents/gui-components)
- Request structured input from the user using [forms](/build-agents/forms)
- Learn how to work with [files](/build-agents/files)
- [Share your agent](/how-to/share-agents) with the others
