docs/build-agents/multi-turn.mdx, before:

---
title: "Multi-Turn Conversations"
description: "Learn how to handle conversation history and state in BeeAI Agents"
---

When building conversational AI agents, one of the key requirements is maintaining context across multiple interactions. While agent functions are essentially stateless by design, the BeeAI platform provides built-in mechanisms to access and manage conversation history.

You need to explicitly store messages in the context memory using `context.store()` to make them available for retrieval in future interactions.

<Tip>
The stateless design of agent functions ensures reliability and scalability, while the context memory system provides the conversation continuity that users expect from AI assistants.
</Tip>

## Quickstart

<Steps>
<Step title="Store incoming messages">
Use `await context.store(input)` to store the current user message in the conversation history.
</Step>

<Step title="Access conversation history">
Use the `RunContext` parameter to access the conversation store and load previous messages.
</Step>

<Step title="Filter and process history">
Retrieve and filter the conversation history to get the messages relevant to your agent's logic.
</Step>

<Step title="Store agent responses">
Use `await context.store(response)` to store your agent's responses for future conversation context.
</Step>

<Step title="Configure persistent storage">
Set up persistent context storage to maintain conversation history across agent restarts.
</Step>
</Steps>

## Basic History Access

Here's how to access conversation history in your agent:

```python
import os

from a2a.types import Message
from a2a.utils.message import get_message_text

from beeai_sdk.a2a.types import AgentMessage
from beeai_sdk.server import Server
from beeai_sdk.server.context import RunContext

server = Server()


@server.agent()
async def example_agent(input: Message, context: RunContext):
    """Agent that demonstrates conversation history access"""

    # Store the current message in the context store
    await context.store(input)

    # Get the current user message
    current_message = get_message_text(input)
    print(f"Current message: {current_message}")

    # Load all messages from conversation history (including current message)
    history = [message async for message in context.load_history() if isinstance(message, Message) and message.parts]

    # Process the conversation history
    print(f"Found {len(history)} messages in conversation (including current)")

    # Your agent logic here - you can now reference all messages in the conversation
    message = AgentMessage(text=f"Hello! I can see we have {len(history)} messages in our conversation.")
    yield message

    # Store the message in the context store
    await context.store(message)


def run():
    server.run(host=os.getenv("HOST", "127.0.0.1"), port=int(os.getenv("PORT", 8000)))

if __name__ == "__main__":
    run()
```

## Understanding Conversation History

The `context.load_history()` method returns an async iterator containing all items in the conversation, including the current message. This can include:

- **A2A Messages**: Both user and assistant messages from the conversation (including the current message)
- **Artifacts**: Any files, documents, or other artifacts shared during the conversation

For multi-turn conversations, you'll primarily work with A2A messages, which include:
- **User messages**: Messages sent by the user
- **Assistant messages**: Previous responses from your agent

<Tip>
The history includes the current message, so if you want only previous messages, you may need to filter out the last message or use the current message separately.
</Tip>

<Warning>
The history iterator returns all message types. Always filter messages using `isinstance(message, Message)` to ensure you're working with the correct message format.
</Warning>

## Message Storage Guidelines

Since messages are not automatically stored, you need to explicitly call `context.store()` for any message you want to be available in future interactions. Here are the key guidelines:

### What to Store

- **User messages**: Always store incoming user messages to maintain conversation context
- **Agent responses**: Store your agent's responses so they're available for future reference
- **Important artifacts**: Store any files, documents, or other artifacts that should persist

### When to Store

```python
@server.agent()
async def my_agent(input: Message, context: RunContext):
    # Store the incoming user message immediately
    await context.store(input)
    
    # Process the message and generate response
    response = AgentMessage(text="Your response here")
    yield response
    
    # Store the agent's response after yielding
    await context.store(response)
```

### Storage Best Practices

- **Store early**: Store user messages at the beginning of your agent function
- **Store after yielding**: Store agent responses after yielding them to the user
- **Be selective**: Only store messages that are relevant for future conversation context
- **Handle errors**: Consider what happens if storage fails - your agent should still function

<Warning>
If you don't store messages, they won't be available in `context.load_history()` for future interactions. This means your agent will lose conversation context.
</Warning>

## Persistent Storage

By default, conversation history is stored in memory, which means it's lost when the agent process restarts. For production applications, you'll want to use persistent storage.

### Using Platform Context Store

To maintain conversation history across agent restarts, configure your server to use the platform's persistent context store:

```python
from beeai_sdk.server.context import PlatformContextStore

def run():
    server.run(
        host=os.getenv("HOST", "127.0.0.1"), 
        port=int(os.getenv("PORT", 8000)),
        context_store=PlatformContextStore()
    )
```

<Tip>
The `PlatformContextStore` automatically handles conversation persistence, ensuring that users can continue their conversations even after agent restarts or deployments.
</Tip>

## Advanced History Usage with BeeAI Framework

Here's a sophisticated example using the BeeAI Framework to build a multi-turn chat agent that leverages conversation history and LLM capabilities:

```python
import os
from typing import Annotated

from a2a.types import Message, Role
from a2a.utils.message import get_message_text
from beeai_framework.adapters.openai import OpenAIChatModel
from beeai_framework.agents.experimental import RequirementAgent
from beeai_framework.agents.experimental.requirements.conditional import ConditionalRequirement
from beeai_framework.backend import AssistantMessage, UserMessage
from beeai_framework.backend.types import ChatModelParameters
from beeai_framework.tools.think import ThinkTool

from beeai_sdk.a2a.extensions import (
    LLMServiceExtensionServer,
    LLMServiceExtensionSpec,
)
from beeai_sdk.a2a.types import AgentMessage
from beeai_sdk.server import Server
from beeai_sdk.server.context import RunContext
from beeai_sdk.server.store.platform_context_store import PlatformContextStore

server = Server()

FrameworkMessage = UserMessage | AssistantMessage


def to_framework_message(message: Message) -> FrameworkMessage:
    """Convert A2A Message to BeeAI Framework Message format"""
    message_text = "".join(part.root.text for part in message.parts if part.root.kind == "text")

    if message.role == Role.agent:
        return AssistantMessage(message_text)
    elif message.role == Role.user:
        return UserMessage(message_text)
    else:
        raise ValueError(f"Invalid message role: {message.role}")


@server.agent()
async def multi_turn_chat_agent(
    input: Message,
    context: RunContext,
    llm: Annotated[LLMServiceExtensionServer, LLMServiceExtensionSpec.single_demand()],
):
    """Multi-turn chat agent with conversation memory and LLM integration"""
    await context.store(input)

    # Load conversation history
    history = [message async for message in context.load_history() if isinstance(message, Message) and message.parts]

    # Get LLM configuration from the platform
    llm_config = llm.data.llm_fulfillments.get("default")

    # Initialize BeeAI Framework LLM client
    llm_client = OpenAIChatModel(
        model_id=llm_config.api_model,
        base_url=llm_config.api_base,
        api_key=llm_config.api_key,
        parameters=ChatModelParameters(temperature=0.0),
        tool_choice_support=set(),
    )

    # Create a RequirementAgent with conversation memory
    agent = RequirementAgent(
        name="Agent",
        llm=llm_client,
        role="helpful assistant",
        instructions="You are a helpful assistant that is supposed to remember users name. Ask them for their name and remember it.",
        tools=[ThinkTool()],
        requirements=[ConditionalRequirement(ThinkTool, force_at_step=1)],
        save_intermediate_steps=False,
        middlewares=[],
    )

    # Load conversation history into agent memory
    await agent.memory.add_many(to_framework_message(item) for item in history)

    # Process the current message and generate response
    async for event, meta in agent.run(get_message_text(input)):
        if meta.name == "success" and event.state.steps:
            step = event.state.steps[-1]
            if not step.tool:
                continue

            tool_name = step.tool.name

            if tool_name == "final_answer":
                response = AgentMessage(text=step.input["response"])

                yield response
                await context.store(response)


def run():
    server.run(
        host=os.getenv("HOST", "127.0.0.1"),
        port=int(os.getenv("PORT", "8000")),
        context_store=PlatformContextStore(),  # Enable persistent storage
    )


if __name__ == "__main__":
    run()
```

This advanced example demonstrates several key concepts:

- **LLM Integration**: Uses the platform's LLM service extension to get model access
- **Framework Integration**: Leverages the BeeAI Framework for sophisticated agent capabilities
- **Memory Management**: Converts conversation history to framework format and loads it into agent memory
- **Tool Usage**: Includes thinking tools and conditional requirements for better reasoning
- **Persistent Storage**: Uses `PlatformContextStore` for conversation persistence

Commit message:

chore: update naming for agentstack in docs
Signed-off-by: Tomas Weiss <tomas.weiss2@gmail.com>

docs/build-agents/multi-turn.mdx, after:

---
title: "Multi-Turn Conversations"
description: "Learn how to handle conversation history and state in Agent Stack"
---

When building conversational AI agents, one of the key requirements is maintaining context across multiple interactions. While agent functions are essentially stateless by design, the Agent Stack provides built-in mechanisms to access and manage conversation history.

You need to explicitly store messages in the context memory using `context.store()` to make them available for retrieval in future interactions.

<Tip>
The stateless design of agent functions ensures reliability and scalability, while the context memory system provides the conversation continuity that users expect from AI assistants.
</Tip>

## Quickstart

<Steps>
<Step title="Store incoming messages">
Use `await context.store(input)` to store the current user message in the conversation history.
</Step>

<Step title="Access conversation history">
Use the `RunContext` parameter to access the conversation store and load previous messages.
</Step>

<Step title="Filter and process history">
Retrieve and filter the conversation history to get the messages relevant to your agent's logic.
</Step>

<Step title="Store agent responses">
Use `await context.store(response)` to store your agent's responses for future conversation context.
</Step>

<Step title="Configure persistent storage">
Set up persistent context storage to maintain conversation history across agent restarts.
</Step>
</Steps>

## Basic History Access

Here's how to access conversation history in your agent:

```python
import os

from a2a.types import Message
from a2a.utils.message import get_message_text

from agentstack_sdk.a2a.types import AgentMessage
from agentstack_sdk.server import Server
from agentstack_sdk.server.context import RunContext

server = Server()


@server.agent()
async def example_agent(input: Message, context: RunContext):
    """Agent that demonstrates conversation history access"""

    # Store the current message in the context store
    await context.store(input)

    # Get the current user message
    current_message = get_message_text(input)
    print(f"Current message: {current_message}")

    # Load all messages from conversation history (including current message)
    history = [message async for message in context.load_history() if isinstance(message, Message) and message.parts]

    # Process the conversation history
    print(f"Found {len(history)} messages in conversation (including current)")

    # Your agent logic here - you can now reference all messages in the conversation
    message = AgentMessage(text=f"Hello! I can see we have {len(history)} messages in our conversation.")
    yield message

    # Store the message in the context store
    await context.store(message)


def run():
    server.run(host=os.getenv("HOST", "127.0.0.1"), port=int(os.getenv("PORT", 8000)))

if __name__ == "__main__":
    run()
```

## Understanding Conversation History

The `context.load_history()` method returns an async iterator containing all items in the conversation, including the current message. This can include:

- **A2A Messages**: Both user and assistant messages from the conversation (including the current message)
- **Artifacts**: Any files, documents, or other artifacts shared during the conversation

For multi-turn conversations, you'll primarily work with A2A messages, which include:
- **User messages**: Messages sent by the user
- **Assistant messages**: Previous responses from your agent

<Tip>
The history includes the current message, so if you want only previous messages, you may need to filter out the last message or use the current message separately.
</Tip>

<Warning>
The history iterator returns all message types. Always filter messages using `isinstance(message, Message)` to ensure you're working with the correct message format.
</Warning>

## Message Storage Guidelines

Since messages are not automatically stored, you need to explicitly call `context.store()` for any message you want to be available in future interactions. Here are the key guidelines:

### What to Store

- **User messages**: Always store incoming user messages to maintain conversation context
- **Agent responses**: Store your agent's responses so they're available for future reference
- **Important artifacts**: Store any files, documents, or other artifacts that should persist

### When to Store

```python
@server.agent()
async def my_agent(input: Message, context: RunContext):
    # Store the incoming user message immediately
    await context.store(input)
    
    # Process the message and generate response
    response = AgentMessage(text="Your response here")
    yield response
    
    # Store the agent's response after yielding
    await context.store(response)
```

### Storage Best Practices

- **Store early**: Store user messages at the beginning of your agent function
- **Store after yielding**: Store agent responses after yielding them to the user
- **Be selective**: Only store messages that are relevant for future conversation context
- **Handle errors**: Consider what happens if storage fails - your agent should still function

<Warning>
If you don't store messages, they won't be available in `context.load_history()` for future interactions. This means your agent will lose conversation context.
</Warning>

## Persistent Storage

By default, conversation history is stored in memory, which means it's lost when the agent process restarts. For production applications, you'll want to use persistent storage.

### Using Platform Context Store

To maintain conversation history across agent restarts, configure your server to use the platform's persistent context store:

```python
from agentstack_sdk.server.context import PlatformContextStore

def run():
    server.run(
        host=os.getenv("HOST", "127.0.0.1"), 
        port=int(os.getenv("PORT", 8000)),
        context_store=PlatformContextStore()
    )
```

<Tip>
The `PlatformContextStore` automatically handles conversation persistence, ensuring that users can continue their conversations even after agent restarts or deployments.
</Tip>

## Advanced History Usage with BeeAI Framework

Here's a sophisticated example using the BeeAI Framework to build a multi-turn chat agent that leverages conversation history and LLM capabilities:

```python
import os
from typing import Annotated

from a2a.types import Message, Role
from a2a.utils.message import get_message_text
from beeai_framework.adapters.openai import OpenAIChatModel
from beeai_framework.agents.experimental import RequirementAgent
from beeai_framework.agents.experimental.requirements.conditional import ConditionalRequirement
from beeai_framework.backend import AssistantMessage, UserMessage
from beeai_framework.backend.types import ChatModelParameters
from beeai_framework.tools.think import ThinkTool

from agentstack_sdk.a2a.extensions import (
    LLMServiceExtensionServer,
    LLMServiceExtensionSpec,
)
from agentstack_sdk.a2a.types import AgentMessage
from agentstack_sdk.server import Server
from agentstack_sdk.server.context import RunContext
from agentstack_sdk.server.store.platform_context_store import PlatformContextStore

server = Server()

FrameworkMessage = UserMessage | AssistantMessage


def to_framework_message(message: Message) -> FrameworkMessage:
    """Convert A2A Message to BeeAI Framework Message format"""
    message_text = "".join(part.root.text for part in message.parts if part.root.kind == "text")

    if message.role == Role.agent:
        return AssistantMessage(message_text)
    elif message.role == Role.user:
        return UserMessage(message_text)
    else:
        raise ValueError(f"Invalid message role: {message.role}")


@server.agent()
async def multi_turn_chat_agent(
    input: Message,
    context: RunContext,
    llm: Annotated[LLMServiceExtensionServer, LLMServiceExtensionSpec.single_demand()],
):
    """Multi-turn chat agent with conversation memory and LLM integration"""
    await context.store(input)

    # Load conversation history
    history = [message async for message in context.load_history() if isinstance(message, Message) and message.parts]

    # Get LLM configuration from the platform
    llm_config = llm.data.llm_fulfillments.get("default")

    # Initialize BeeAI Framework LLM client
    llm_client = OpenAIChatModel(
        model_id=llm_config.api_model,
        base_url=llm_config.api_base,
        api_key=llm_config.api_key,
        parameters=ChatModelParameters(temperature=0.0),
        tool_choice_support=set(),
    )

    # Create a RequirementAgent with conversation memory
    agent = RequirementAgent(
        name="Agent",
        llm=llm_client,
        role="helpful assistant",
        instructions="You are a helpful assistant that is supposed to remember users name. Ask them for their name and remember it.",
        tools=[ThinkTool()],
        requirements=[ConditionalRequirement(ThinkTool, force_at_step=1)],
        save_intermediate_steps=False,
        middlewares=[],
    )

    # Load conversation history into agent memory
    await agent.memory.add_many(to_framework_message(item) for item in history)

    # Process the current message and generate response
    async for event, meta in agent.run(get_message_text(input)):
        if meta.name == "success" and event.state.steps:
            step = event.state.steps[-1]
            if not step.tool:
                continue

            tool_name = step.tool.name

            if tool_name == "final_answer":
                response = AgentMessage(text=step.input["response"])

                yield response
                await context.store(response)


def run():
    server.run(
        host=os.getenv("HOST", "127.0.0.1"),
        port=int(os.getenv("PORT", "8000")),
        context_store=PlatformContextStore(),  # Enable persistent storage
    )


if __name__ == "__main__":
    run()
```

This advanced example demonstrates several key concepts:

- **LLM Integration**: Uses the platform's LLM service extension to get model access
- **Framework Integration**: Leverages the BeeAI Framework for sophisticated agent capabilities
- **Memory Management**: Converts conversation history to framework format and loads it into agent memory
- **Tool Usage**: Includes thinking tools and conditional requirements for better reasoning
- **Persistent Storage**: Uses `PlatformContextStore` for conversation persistence
